greetings thanks for stopping by today
i'll show you a horror mystery film from
2017 called the ritual
so without further ado let's recap this
five friends phil dom hutch luke and rob
meet at a pub and discuss plans for a
group holiday rob suggests hiking in
sweden but gets rebuffed afterward luke
and rob leave to purchase alcohol but
interrupt a robbery in progress
luke hides while the thieves harass rob
for his valuables luke continues to hide
torn with indecision over how to
intervene before the thieves kill rob
for not giving them his wedding ring
[Music]
six months later the remaining four
embark on a hiking trip along the kung's
leden in northern sweden in robb's
memory
a day later dom injures his knee hutch
suggests they cut through the forest
rather than use the longer marked trail
in the hopes of sparing dom further
suffering
upon entering the forest however the
group encounters strange phenomena
including a gutted elk hanging from
several branches and strange symbols
carved in the trees
as night falls a torrential rainstorm
forces them to find shelter
they come upon an abandoned cabin so
they break in and stay for the night
inside they find necklaces bearing
similar symbols in a statue made of
twigs of a decapitated human torso with
antlers for hands
during the night luke has a nightmare
about the robbery the next morning the
group awake to find luke's chest
bleeding from strange puncture wounds in
a naked fill praying to the statue
all of them having had nightmares
disturbed by their unconscious actions
the group tries to find a way out
while discerning their location luke
spots a large figure amongst the trees
but dom doubts him
in their ensuing argument dom calls luke
a coward for letting rob die to save
himself
later that night luke is having another
nightmare about the robbery and is
awakened by phil's screams
he comes out of his tent and finds
hutch's tent empty and partially
collapsed
the remaining three men rushed deeper
into the woods to search for him but by
dawn they realize that they are lost and
unable to locate their campsite
while continuing their search without
their supplies they find hutch gutted
and impaled on tree branches
after giving him an impromptu burial
they continue on later phil is suddenly
dragged away by an unseen creature
despite realizing the creature has been
stalking them the entire time luke and
dom have little choice but to make a run
for it
as the creature gives chase they find a
torchline path leading to a small
settlement and rush into a cottage to
hide
after they get inside they are knocked
unconscious
when they awake they find themselves
restrained in a cellar an elderly woman
enters and inspects luke's wounds
revealing she bears a similar marking
on her way out she orders two men to
take dom upstairs
a younger woman enters and explains that
preparations are being made for a
sacrifice
sometime later a beaten dom is returned
to the basement he tells luke that he is
to be sacrificed to the creature urging
him to escape and destroy the village
before he too is sacrificed
desperate to escape luke breaks his
thumb and partially frees himself from
his restraints as dom is tied up outside
by the townsfolk
amidst the ritual dom has a vision of
his wife emerging from the forest not
realizing it is the creature until right
before it picks him up and impales him
on a nearby tree
sometime later the young woman comes
back when luke asks about the creature
she explains that it is a yodan an
ancient god-like entity in an offspring
of loki that the cult provides
sacrifices to in return for immortality
luke has been chosen and is to either
worship it or be sacrificed
she is revealed to also possess the same
markings on her chest after she leaves
luke fully frees himself and ventures
upstairs armed with a torch he finds a
twisted congregation of mummified
worshipers that begin to move and sets
them alight burning the cabin and
attracting the yoten luke finds a
hunting rifle and heads downstairs
running into and killing a follower
before taking another man's axe
the enraged yotan kills the young woman
while luke shoots at it and escapes
it pursues him crippling his mind with
hallucinations of robb's death before
catching and forcing him to his knees
offering him a chance to submit
luke refuses before striking it with the
axe briefly incapacitating it
following hallucinatory signposts in
rays of sunlight he emerges in an open
field
unable to leave the forest the yoten
roars in anger while luke shouts back in
triumph before heading towards a paved
road
and that was it did you like it have you
seen this movie before or are you
planning to watch it now
let me know in the comments and don't
forget to leave a like and subscribe so
you won't miss the next movie recaps
see you on the next one bye